<h1>PDDL-Game-For-PlanSys2-Planner</h1>
<p>C++ SFML visualization of the PDDL PlanSys2 planner</p>
<h2>PDDL</h2>
<p>
 <b>PDDL</b> (Planning Domain Definition Language) is a language that allows to generate different <b>plans</b> by automatic systems. It dates back to 1998 when professor Drew McDermott and his colleagues decided to create common standard language which will be main tool of the International Planning Competition (IPC; now it's named as <b>ICAPS</b>). The result of the implementation of their intention cannot be overestimated! This development was called "PDDL".
</p>

<p>
 PDDL assumes that developer create a <b>planning doman</b> in one .pddl file and <b>task</b> or <b>problem</b> for the planner in another. In first file programmer should include his
 view of <b>subject area</b> the planner will work with. In second — a problem which planner has to solve. That repository in particular involves an arsenal of popular PDDL version <b>2.1</b>.
 This version includes such novations as: numeric fluents, plan-metrics and durative/continuous actions. Read more about this in your preferred resources or visit my website: <a href="http://matesspace.h1n.ru/articles/ros/ros0/ros0.php">http://matesspace.h1n.ru</a> (I'm from Russia :).
</p>

<h2>Subject of the repository</h2>
<p>
 This repository you're now in demontrates PDDL cooperation with C++ libraries and tools. This project uses SFML
 library (<a href="https://www.sfml-dev.org/">https://www.sfml-dev.org/</a>) for visualization of PDDL plan execution. Operators (or actions) of plans are generated by <b>PlanSys2</b> planner which has to be installed into <b>ROS2</b> system on Linux <b>Ubuntu 22.04</b>, for example. Main function in <i>game.cpp</i> file calls planner via Linux bash interpreter (though &lt;cstdlib&gt; <i>system</i> command).
</p>

<p>
 Though temp files (which are always have been removed after program closing) a problem generating by <i>Planner::getPDDLProblem()</i> method and source doman in <i>PDDL/game_domain.pddl</i> file
 are sent to planner input. The PlanSys2 planner send a reply to C++ program via temp file containing a new plan. This file is read by <i>Planner::getPDDLPlan()</i> method and separate elements of this plan are created. These elements are simple actions described in domain file that has to be executed by C++ SFML visualization.
</p>

<p>
 Then <i>Game</i> class just draws into SFML window cleaner's steps and stones' removing.
</p>
